As I divide it over the day, divide as following the masters of the lineage and dividing in the
three sections.
Beginning excellent, middle excellent, and concluding excellent. Among those three now in the
middle.
Middle also I divided into three sections, which is the foundation and the path and the result, the
fruit.
Fruit and three sections. Three divisions. So the ground, we can't do like, went over that.
Briefly and we went through that. And ground, again, once again, ground is not external ground.
Ground is our inner nature, the fundamental, the essential nature, the ground of everything.
Everything and that is rupa. Simple word, rupa, and every use, knowledge, terminology, salt-borne,
awareness, wisdom.
Ram yom ke yishi, that rupa. And that ground is ground of everything.
Whether we can kind of believe it or not, it's so surprising, shocking. That is ground of
everything.
And immediately looking, that is ground of our body, ground of our speech, and the ground of our
mind.
All that. And that is ground of all our forms. Forms in the universe, all form systems in the
universe,
in all the space of the universe, all started from this, this. Therefore, and always in the tantra
of the teaching,
named ground, it is ground. And sometimes, also this name, another synonym, I make it other,
riff with those synonyms, but another synonym is tantra. It's called tantra too.
Tantra is called foundation tantra, ground tantra. Tantra is Sanskrit word,
which means, means roughly in the English, is the kind of continuation. It's continuation.
So this is the ground of continuation. The primordial wisdom of the rupa is the ground of
continuation
of display of everything what we see, everything what we experience, everything what we go through.
So that is what is ground. So again, that's it. So we went through that breathing of this.
This, as like beat instruction, beat instruction, and went through that and pointed out,
I call it lineage teachings. So that's it. And now, today, we move to the next division.
Next division is, as I said, that first is ground, then the path, then the fruit or the result.
So among that three, today, now we follow, go all with path. Path. The path is divided into three.
And that is, I think, I also, I make it early, and I'm sure you heard, and you know that before too
young.
It's not just during this time we heard. Path has three, the will, meditation, and conduct.
Those are the divisions of the path. Path, will is path, meditation is path, conduct is path.
And all that cooperatively took it. Without our living, our exposals, or without change, we have to
carry all that.
Three, three. And therefore, in the teaching of what you say, or those great Zoki Masters teaching,
you say, the pit instructions of the will, pit instructions of the meditation, pit instructions of
the conduct.
Three, this is, goes side by side, all inseparable. It goes out, there.
Now, will, again, I mentioned the other day, and you heard, we heard this from our great teacher, K
.T. Padhe,
here almost many times, but will, will is what we're going to meditate, what we're going to follow
the path.
Will is so important, that is, we're going to keep up that. Will, we are going to keep the will,
vastness according to the open, vast sky. That's what we're going to keep that. Will is so
important.
And for that reason, what the great, I mean, always I say, will is, something that, will is that
something we developed,
through the understanding, precisely the meaning, meaning that without any doubt.
So that means, confidence on the will. Confidence on the will is so important.
You understood, you're going to, then going to, will that. You're going to, will, will. Behold like
that.
Or you're going to will that. When you're willing that, what is the name, the other name? It's
meditation.
When you're willing without that, will. That is meditation, meditation.
So therefore, will is so crucial and is so important, that will make the difference of our practice
. Will is important.
Therefore, that means doubt. If we have the doubt and hesitations of the will, then our ground is
shaking.
Our meditations are shaking. Our conduct will be shaking. Conduct will be shaking.
And therefore, will is so important, it's like, it's knowledge. It's knowledge, understanding.
And that's what great master Mahabharati said. Will is something that whatever you're thinking,
see that exactly clearly as it is without any doubt, doubt or hesitation that have to do.
That is so, that is the what doing is.
And this time, will is, what's it called? The pre from everything, everything.
Pre from every grasping, every clinging, even the naughty of the free, that naughty even freed,
freed.
That is what is our view of the zoki, zoki movements.
This is not just on the zoki teachings, but every Buddha's teaching has this, this.
I mean that we know, we started, we started.
For example, let's see, as we go to the Hinayanas, Hinayana has two, two groups.
As again, we learned, at least two groups. Those are known as the Sharakayana and the Pathik Bodhay
anas.
Always simple, we tell, just say Hinayanas.
These two groups, two individual or two groups of the practitioners, the Sharakayana and the Pathik
Bodhayanas.
And the Sharakayana is then Araka, I mean, no not Araka, sorry, I shouldn't use that.
Sharaka, Sharaka means, means actually literally translated Sanskrit word into, into Tibet,
translated as Tudho.
Tudho means, heard, when you, you heard and you speak out.
What that means in a city, Sharaka, Sharaka, in Sanskrit word, is as a listening, listening and
speaking.
Listen as you heard, you heard and speak out.
What that means in the teaching said, because those great Arathas, this Sharaka, so devoted to the
Buddha.
This says, write the Buddha, write in front of the Buddha or when the Buddha is giving the teaching
and listen carefully, is listening the teaching from the Buddha.
Carefully, what they are understanding with their compassion, also sharing that with others,
exactly Buddha's word.
Not articulating anything about their, not interpreted by any of their conceptions, adding any
things.
Tudho means, listening carefully and pronouncing that to the others, exactly that.
And that school, school is then named also as the Hinayanas.
Hinayanas say, what is the will of the Hinayanas, for example, the Sharaka yanas, the will.
Egolessness, that is the will.
Egolessness, no egos, no egos, that means no I.
Clinging the I is the fundamental problems, fundamental problems to all the schools.
It started from here, all the way to the Doki teachings.
This is problem, problematics.
Clinging is, and particularly, clinging to the individuals.
For that reason, great Master, of course, Nagarjana too, but great Master Shanti Deva said,
in the K.J. Rambojan, many great Master take whatever.
He said, in the world, and all in the world,
all the suffering, the difficulties, whatever you go through or see,
this, this all fundamentally generated by the ego, or I.
And all the fears, of hope and fears, all that is generated by the ego.
Clinging is, clinging is, sense is, therefore, why I am going to keep this ego?
Why I am going to keep this all?
This is the problem, this is making every problem.
The problem of why I am going to keep this.
Sense is that, sense is that problematics, problematics, are really, truly existing.
Then, of course, maybe we should have the reason to keep this.
But it is not existing, truly.
And that truly not existing, it is just nausea.
No, there is nothing here.
That is why you read the books, Bodhisattva Charyavataras, all other books,
from the top of the body or head, all the way to, to, finding out where is ego,
where is I, where is this, and there is no existing ego.
I, at all, anywhere, outside, inside, between, up and down, and everywhere you look.
When that is then fact, there is no ego, no I, I.
And when you find that fact without any doubt and hesitation,
and then relax on that, meditate on that.
We did it again, with the conjure, beautiful conjure, and then meditate on that.
That is known as the wheel of the Hinayana or the Shravakayana.
And then, by the way, Bodhayana, they have another, a digital realization,
of the, all these subjects are, sorry, objects are in, in us, beside the ego clings.
That is their wheels.
Actually, I am in the Buddha teaching, when you read the philosophy,
or not just the Buddha teaching, but practically, we have two clings.
We have clings to the south, we have clings to all the objects.
This is our two clings. This is true.
I mean, this, everybody does. Two clings.
But this is just clings. Clings, there is nothing really existing,
entities that is permanent, that can, can truth.
Everything is hallucination.
We are grasping to the dream, we are grasping to the mirage,
we are grasping to the hallucinations.
Hallucinations. And we are grasping to the magics.
Magics, it surely is not.
When you are grasping to the magics, when you are grasping to the hallucinations,
it is not wise.
And kind of following that, trying to do this and that, it is not wise, it is not smart.
Nobody will say in samsara world, people who cling to the mirage,
who will cling to the mag, hallucinations.
Anybody know, won't say, oh, that person is expert.
Oh, he is a famous scholar, she is a scholar. Oh, that is something. Wow!
Nobody really will say. I mean, think of that truly.
This is the MSG, we are practicing, we are going to find out the fact,
what Buddha said and use our intelligence and mingle that
and find out exactly entities, truth from this.
This, this is our responsibility.
Our greatest teacher, Buddha said that, exam, think carefully
and follow that goal, my words, follow.
And we analyzed MSG, all it is, is not true.
And that is now and then, the part of the Buddha, he rejections.
All the subjects are empty.
Sorry sir, I am using a different word.
Objects are empty.
So, the whole ego-cling is empty and as well as all object entities.
Objectus, entities. What are objects? Have I said roughly to that?
I mean, you know, objects are, there is five objects.
Five objects, object I is home, object A is sound, object of nose is smell,
object of tongue is taste, object of body is touch.
Those are called objects.
Here, they realize that it is empty or as hallucination,
as mirage, as magic, as a dream, they realize it.
That is empty and black with ego-clinging, ego-lessness.
Realization and through that, again applying that,
keeping up that mood with the beautiful convert and beautiful assistant
and then they got a rata word, such as, "part of Buddha's Jams."
And that foundation, this is now starting.
All the nature is going deeper and deeper.
The Buddha taking it deeper and deeper and deeper, deeper.
And now went to the Mahayana schools.
Mahayana schools are within mind-only schools
and as well as Madhema schools. There are two schools.
Mind-only schools, see, everything is hallucination as a dream.
Relatively, you see everything as dream, dream, mirage, as hallucinations.
Reality now is free. It is empty.
And see, every subject and object, all is empty.
And with beautiful conduct of the body, each other,
with beautiful conduct of the understanding and applying that,
and they reach them, Buddhahood.
Realization of those mind-only schools.
This school, always those great master says that this school,
always one have that they hold, is that fundamental mind.
The mind that is free from the duality is that mind existing.
That thought, therefore, they come as the thought schools.
They came, so they're holding something still.
Even though everything is just totally fine,
and the same as the Mademaka or as Jokhin, everything,
but there's still something keeping up there, some entities.
And that which is known as the subtle mind.
That which is free from the dualities, free from the clinging to the subject,
free from the clinging to the object.
That freedom of that entity of the mind, the subtle mind, is there.
That's what this thing is.
So they're keeping something, therefore, again, kept as like this thought,
in the thought schools.
And then from now on, all the Jokhin teaching, everything is free.
Mahayana, such as Mademaka, everything is free.
There's nothing existing that entirely universe in samsara and nirvana.
One smiles the entities, entities.
That is not totally freedom, total freedom.
That, and which is also known as free from all the complex cities,
free from every aspect of the complex cities.
And beyond that, inconceivable state, everything.
Then went up and up again and deeper, and always again.
So with that, and then both each other, and get realization.
Both each other, conjured with both each other,
and then they got the realization, such as Buddhahood.
According to this school, as we heard many times,
then those great masters or great, like Bodhisattva can reach enlightenment,
highly intelligent Bodhisattva can reach enlightenment
within three complex eons, seven complex eons,
thirty-two complex eons, so forth.
But then it's just one part.
One way, continuing moving forward, advancing,
going forward, reaching enlightenment, but the whole status.
And then go to the very end, and continue one above another.
And then in the three, in that other's levels, and then Mahayoga.
See, everything is for great purity status.
Mahayoga teaching, what is it?
Everything is related level, everything is in divine mandalas.
Mandala of the body, mandala of the speech,
mandala of the mind, what's the mind?
Everything. And the absolute level, that all, again,
in a great emptiness, in total, economic status.
There's no difference between absolute level, that divine and that emptiness.
Same, same central status.
They just, and then in the Ano-Yoga teaching, what are the teachings?
Again, in the old way, they said that everything is,
what's the state of the Buddha Samad-Bhadras,
the female Buddha Samad-Bhadras status.
It's total, the three mandala state, again,
three mandala, and old in nature, is total open freedom,
as like, as a mandala of the Samad-Bhadras.
From that, natural, unceasing, variety display,
emanation, coming as a skillful means of all the Buddha Samad-Bhadras,
and they are completely united, inseparable united,
and displaying all the unceasing, call it, call it of the,
the children of the bodhicata,
the children of the great bless from the states.
That is, all, everything in the three mandala states, all that.
And then, reaching enlightenment within these dark times,
all, all in the path of state, and so forth.
And now, we link up to the upper, the highest state of the teaching,
which is then, Zokhi.
Zokhi, we've already discussed the other day,
and I also repeated three times, again.
The everything is, no matter whatever the explanation,
whatever that is, all is the primordial wisdom of the Rupa.
Rupa, sub-luminosity, clarity, luminosity state,
is the peak of the, like, as a pyramid.
In a way, pyramid, way of the park,
we reach to the peak of the now level.
Everything is kind of descended from that,
and everything is merged back to the concluded,
back to the peak of the pyramid of our awareness.
Our awareness of the primordial wisdom
is the source and the display of everything.
And this nature is then in the trikaya status.
Everything emanated from this,
everything is concluding to that status, to that status.
Its heart is totally free, free and empty, open, clarity,
and full of the energetic status.
That is the Zokhi rule.
And that meditating of this, then, will continue to move,
move, and reaching enlightenment.
As it is within this single item, not just even that.
And in the four example tips in single theory,
that we had great opportunity to resist the teaching of this,
great masters and the mumahinte, known as sometimes.
And this master reached enlightenment within twelve years.
And then he came by himself.
Of course, he called it his story,
or the life story, meditated so many years,
over twenty or thirty years in practice, and all that.
But it's not just that, that time,
after thirty years he got the realization of something.
But the moment he really started meditating,
he dedicated himself so many ways of realization.
Science comes one after another.
This is what they then called advancing and developing,
and propelling the every steps with joy and appreciation.
So this is generally our will.
Our will of the will.
Will is so important.
Will is important is that, therefore, we should try to bring.
And now, what are we going to do then?